# AppDelegete

The AppDelegate.swift source file has two primary functions:

It defines your AppDelegate class. The app delegate creates the window where your app’s content is drawn and provides a place to respond to state transitions within the app.
It creates the entry point to your app and a run loop that delivers input events to your app. This work is done by the UIApplicationMain attribute (@UIApplicationMain), which appears toward the top of the file.
Using the UIApplicationMain attribute is equivalent to calling the UIApplicationMain function and passing your AppDelegate class’s name as the name of the delegate class. In response, the system creates an application object. The application object is responsible for managing the life cycle of the app. The system also creates an instance of your AppDelegate class, and assigns it to the application object. Finally, the system launches your app.

## code

```swift
var window: UIWindow?
```
This property stores a reference to the app’s window. This window represents the root of your app’s view hierarchy. It is where all of your app content is drawn. Note that the window property is an optional, which means it may have no value (be nil) at some point.


# Storyboard

A storyboard is a visual representation of the app’s user interface, showing screens of content and the transitions between them.

# Scene

At this point, the storyboard in your app contains one scene, which represents a screen of content in your app. The arrow that points to the left side of the scene on the canvas is the storyboard entry point, which means that this scene is loaded first when the app starts.

# Views

The elements that appear in the user interface are known as views. Views display content to the user. Views have a variety of useful built-in behaviors, including displaying themselves onscreen and reacting to user input.

All view objects in iOS are of type UIView or one of its subclasses. (e.g. UITextField)

# View controllers

In a storyboard, a scene represents one screen of content and typically one view controller. View controllers implement your app’s behavior. A view controller manages a single content view with its hierarchy of subviews. View controllers coordinate the flow of information between the app’s data model, which encapsulates the app’s data, and the views that display that data, manage the life cycle of their content views, handle orientation changes when the device is rotated, define the navigation within your app, and implement the behavior to respond to user input. All view controller objects in iOS are of type UIViewController or one of its subclasses.

You define the behavior of your view controllers in code by creating and implementing custom view controller subclasses. You can then create a connection between those classes and scenes in your storyboard to get the behavior you defined in code and the user interface you defined in your storyboard.

```swift
override func viewDidLoad() {
    super.viewDidLoad()
    // Do any additional setup after loading the view, typically from a nib.
}

```

```swift
override func didReceiveMemoryWarning() {
    super.didReceiveMemoryWarning()
    // Dispose of any resources that can be recreated.
}
```
