# UIViewController

iOS calls the UIViewController methods as follows:

* viewDidLoad()—Called when the view controller’s content view (the top of its view hierarchy) is created and loaded from a storyboard. The view controller’s outlets are guaranteed to have valid values by the time this method is called. Use this method to perform any additional setup required by your view controller.

    Typically, iOS calls viewDidLoad() only once, when its content view is first created; however, the content view is not necessarily created when the controller is first instantiated. Instead, it is lazily created the first time the system or any code accesses the controller’s view property.

* viewWillAppear()—Called just before the view controller’s content view is added to the app’s view hierarchy. Use this method to trigger any operations that need to occur before the content view is presented onscreen. Despite the name, just because the system calls this method, it does not guarantee that the content view will become visible. The view may be obscured by other views or hidden. This method simply indicates that the content view is about to be added to the app’s view hierarchy.

* viewDidAppear()—Called just after the view controller’s content view has been added to the app’s view hierarchy. Use this method to trigger any operations that need to occur as soon as the view is presented onscreen, such as fetching data or showing an animation. Despite the name, just because the system calls this method, it does not guarantee that the content view is visible. The view may be obscured by other views or hidden. This method simply indicates that the content view has been added to the app’s view hierarchy.

# MVC (Model-View-Controller)

This style of app design where view controllers serve as the communication pipeline between your views and your data model is known as MVC (Model-View-Controller). In this pattern, models keep track of your app’s data, views display your user interface and make up the content of an app, and controllers manage your views. By responding to user actions and populating views with content from the data model, controllers serve as a gateway for communication between the model and views.

# Intrinsic content size

A view’s intrinsic content size is the preferred size for the view based on its content. An empty image view doesn’t have an intrinsic content size. As soon as you add an image to a view, its intrinsic content size is set to the image’s size. Providing a placeholder size gives the image a temporary intrinsic content size that you can use while designing your user interface. This value is only used while designing your interface in Interface Builder; at runtime, the layout engine uses the view’s actual intrinsic content size instead.

# controls

There’s a nuanced distinction between views and controls, which are specialized versions of views that respond to user actions in a specific way. A view displays content, whereas a control is used to modify the content in some way. A control (UIControl) is a subclass of UIView. In fact, you’ve already worked with both views (labels, image views) and controls (text fields, buttons) in your interface.

# Gesture Recognizer

An image view isn’t a control, so it’s not designed to respond to input in the same way that button or a slider might. For example, you can’t simply create an action method that’s triggered when a user taps on an image view. (If you try to Control-drag from the image view to your code, you’ll notice that you can’t select Action in the Connection field.)

Gesture recognizers are objects that you attach to a view that allow the view to respond to the user the way a control does. Gesture recognizers interpret touches to determine whether they correspond to a specific gesture, such as a swipe, pinch, or rotation. You can write an action method that is called when a gesture recognizer recognizes its assigned gesture, which is exactly what you need to do for the image view.

# UIImagePickerController

An image picker controller manages the user interface for taking pictures and for choosing saved images to use in your app. And just as you need a text field delegate when you work with a text field, you need an image picker controller delegate to work with an image picker controller. The name of that delegate protocol is UIImagePickerControllerDelegate, and the object that you’ll define as the image picker controller’s delegate is ViewController.

## code

```swift
@IBAction func selectImageFromPhotoLibrary(_ sender: UITapGestureRecognizer) {

    // Hide the keyboard.
    nameTextField.resignFirstResponder()

    // UIImagePickerController is a view controller that lets a user pick media from their photo library.
    let imagePickerController = UIImagePickerController()

    // Only allow photos to be picked, not taken.
    imagePickerController.sourceType = .photoLibrary

    // Make sure ViewController is notified when the user picks an image.
    imagePickerController.delegate = self
    present(imagePickerController, animated: true, completion: nil)
}
```

```swift
imagePickerController.sourceType = .photoLibrary
```
This line of code sets the image picker controller’s source, or the place where it gets its images. The .photoLibrary option uses the simulator’s camera roll.
The type of imagePickerController.sourceType is known to be UIImagePickerControllerSourceType, which is an enumeration. This means you can write its value as the abbreviated form .photoLibrary instead of UIImagePickerControllerSourceType.photoLibrary. Recall that you can use the abbreviated form anytime the enumeration value’s type is already known.

```swift
present(imagePickerController, animated: true, completion: nil)
```
`present(_:animated:completion:)` is a method being called on ViewController. Although it’s not written explicitly, this method is executed on an implicit self object. The method asks ViewController to present the view controller defined by imagePickerController. Passing true to the animated parameter animates the presentation of the image picker controller. The completion parameter refers to a completion handler, a piece of code that executes after this method completes. Because you don’t need to do anything else, you indicate that you don’t need to execute a completion handler by passing in nil.

# UIImagePickerControllerDelegate

After an image picker controller is presented, you interact with it through the delegate methods. To give users the ability to select a picture, you’ll need to implement two of the delegate methods defined in UIImagePickerControllerDelegate:

```swift
func imagePickerControllerDidCancel(_ picker: UIImagePickerController)
func imagePickerController(_ picker: UIImagePickerController, didFinishPickingMediaWithInfo info: [String : Any])
```

## code
```swift
func imagePickerControllerDidCancel(_ picker: UIImagePickerController) {
    // Dismiss the picker if the user canceled.
    dismiss(animated: true, completion: nil)
}
```
`imagePickerControllerDidCancel(_:)` gets called when a user taps the image picker’s Cancel button. This method gives you a chance to dismiss the UIImagePickerController (and optionally, do any necessary cleanup).

```swift
func imagePickerController(_ picker: UIImagePickerController, didFinishPickingMediaWithInfo info: [String : Any]) {

    // The info dictionary may contain multiple representations of the image. You want to use the original.
    guard let selectedImage = info[UIImagePickerControllerOriginalImage] as? UIImage else {
        fatalError("Expected a dictionary containing an image, but was provided the following: \(info)")
    }

    // Set photoImageView to display the selected image.
    photoImageView.image = selectedImage

    // Dismiss the picker.
    dismiss(animated: true, completion: nil)
}
```

```swift
guard let selectedImage = info[UIImagePickerControllerOriginalImage] as? UIImage else {
    fatalError("Expected a dictionary containing an image, but was provided the following: \(info)")
}
```
The info dictionary always contains the original image that was selected in the picker. It may also contain an edited version of that image, if one exists. To keep things simple, you’ll use the original, unedited image for the meal photo.
This code accesses the original, unedited image from the info dictionary. It safely unwraps the optional returned by the dictionary and casts it as a UIImage object (`Any -> UIImage`)(`as? returns nil when conversion failed`). The expectation is that the unwrapping and casting operations will never fail. If they do, it represents either a bug in your app that needs to be fixed at design time. The fatalError() method logs an error message to the console, including the contents of the info dictionary, and then causes the app to terminate—preventing it from continuing in an invalid state.

# Photo library usage description

The system must ask the user for permission before accessing their photo library. In iOS 10 and later, you must provide a photo library usage description. This description explains why your app wants to access the photo library.
The description can be added at `Info.plist`
