# Data Model
## code
```swift
import UIKit

class Meal {

    //MARK: Properties

    var name: String
    var photo: UIImage?
    var rating: Int

    //MARK: Initialization

    init?(name: String, photo: UIImage?, rating: Int) {

        // Initialization should fail if there is no name or if the rating is negative.
        if name.isEmpty || rating < 0  {
            return nil
        }

        // Initialize stored properties.
        self.name = name
        self.photo = photo
        self.rating = rating

    }

}
```


```swift
import UIKit
```

When Xcode creates a new Swift file, it imports the Foundation framework by default, letting you work with Foundation data structures in your code. You’ll also be working with a class from the UIKit framework, so you need to import UIKit. However, importing UIKit also gives you access to Foundation, so you can remove the redundant import to Foundation.

```swift
var name: String
var photo: UIImage?
var rating: Int
```

This code defines the basic properties for the data you need to store. You’re making these variables (`var`) instead of constants (`let`) because they’ll need to change throughout the course of a Meal object’s lifetime.

### Failable initializers

```swift
init?(name: String, photo: UIImage?, rating: Int) {
```

Failable initializers always start with either `init?` or `init!`. These initializers return optional values or implicitly unwrapped optional values, respectively. Optionals can either contain a valid value or `nil`. You must check to see if the optional has a value, and then safely unwrap the value before you can use it. Implicitly unwrapped optionals are optionals, but the system implicitly unwraps them for you.
In this case, your initializer returns an optional `Meal?` object.

# Unit Test

```swift
import XCTest
@testable import FoodTracker

class FoodTrackerTests: XCTestCase {

    override func setUp() {
        super.setUp()
        // Put setup code here. This method is called before the invocation of each test method in the class.
    }

    override func tearDown() {
        // Put teardown code here. This method is called after the invocation of each test method in the class.
        super.tearDown()
    }

    func testExample() {
        // This is an example of a functional test case.
        // Use XCTAssert and related functions to verify your tests produce the correct results.
    }

    func testPerformanceExample() {
        // This is an example of a performance test case.
        self.measure {
            // Put the code you want to measure the time of here.
        }
    }

}
```

The code starts by importing both the XCTest framework and your app.

Note that the code uses the `@testable` attribute when importing your app. This gives your tests access to the internal elements of your app’s code. Remember, Swift defaults to internal access control for all the types, variables, properties, initializers, and functions in your code. If you haven’t explicitly marked an item as file private or private, you can access it from your tests.

The XCTest framework is Xcode’s testing framework. The unit tests themselves are defined in a class, `FoodTrackerTests`, which inherits from XCTestCase. The code comments explain the `setUp()` and `tearDown()` methods, as well as the two sample test cases: `testExample()` and `testPerformanceExample()`.

The main types of tests you can write are functional tests (to check that everything is producing the values you expect) and performance tests (to check that your code is performing as fast as you expect it to). Because you haven’t written any performance-heavy code, you’ll only want to write functional tests for now.

Test cases are simply methods that the system automatically runs as part of your unit tests. To create a test case, create a method whose name starts with the word test. It’s best to give your test cases descriptive names. These names make it easier to identify individual tests later on. For example, a test that checks the `Meal` class’s initialization code could be named `testMealInitialization`.
