#  UITableViewController

To display dynamic data, a table view needs two important helpers: a data source and a delegate. A table view data source, as implied by its name, supplies the table view with the data it needs to display. A table view delegate helps the table view manage cell selection, row heights, and other aspects related to displaying the data. By default, `UITableViewController` and its subclasses adopt the necessary protocols to make the table view controller both a data source (`UITableViewDataSource protocol`) and a delegate (`UITableViewDelegate protocol`) for its associated table view. Your job is to implement the appropriate protocol methods in your table view controller subclass so that your table view has the correct behavior.

A functioning table view requires three table view data source methods.

```swift
func numberOfSections(in tableView: UITableView) -> Int
func tableView(_ tableView: UITableView, numberOfRowsInSection section: Int) -> Int
func tableView(_ tableView: UITableView, cellForRowAt indexPath: IndexPath) -> UITableViewCell
```

```swift
override func numberOfSections(in tableView: UITableView) -> Int {
    return 1
}
```

The first of these is `numberOfSections(In:)`, which tells the table view how many sections to display. Sections are visual groupings of cells within table views, which is especially useful in table views with a lot of data. For a simple table view like the one in the FoodTracker app, you just need the table view to display a single section, so the implementation of the `numberOfSections(In:)` data source method is straightforward.

```swift
override func tableView(_ tableView: UITableView, numberOfRowsInSection section: Int) -> Int {
    return meals.count
}
```

The next data source method, `tableView(_:numberOfRowsInSection:)`, tells the table view how many rows to display in a given section. Your table view has only a single section, and each `Meal` object should have its own row. That means that the number of rows should be the number of `Meal` objects in your `meals` array.

```swift
override func tableView(_ tableView: UITableView, cellForRowAt indexPath: IndexPath) -> UITableViewCell {

    // Table view cells are reused and should be dequeued using a cell identifier.
    let cellIdentifier = "MealTableViewCell"

    guard let cell = tableView.dequeueReusableCell(withIdentifier: cellIdentifier, for: indexPath) as? MealTableViewCell  else {
        fatalError("The dequeued cell is not an instance of MealTableViewCell.")
    }

    // Fetches the appropriate meal for the data source layout.
    let meal = meals[indexPath.row]

    cell.nameLabel.text = meal.name
    cell.photoImageView.image = meal.photo
    cell.ratingControl.rating = meal.rating

    return cell
}
```

The last data source method, `tableView(_:cellForRowAt:)`, configures and provides a cell to display for a given row. Each row in a table view has one cell, and that cell determines the content that appears in that row and how that content is laid out.

```swift
guard let cell = tableView.dequeueReusableCell(withIdentifier: cellIdentifier, for: indexPath) as? MealTableViewCell  else {
    fatalError("The dequeued cell is not an instance of MealTableViewCell.")
}
```

For table views with a small number of rows, all rows may be onscreen at once, so this method gets called for each row in your table. But table views with a large number of rows display only a small fraction of their total items at a given time. It’s most efficient for table views to ask for only the cells for rows that are being displayed, and that’s what `tableView(_:cellForRowAt:)` allows the table view to do.

For any given row in the table view, you configure the cell by fetching the corresponding `Meal` in the `meals` array, and then setting the cell’s properties to corresponding values from the `Meal` class.

The `dequeueReusableCell(withIdentifier:for:)` method requests a cell from the table view. Instead of creating new cells and deleting old cells as the user scrolls, the table tries to reuse the cells when possible. If no cells are available, `dequeueReusableCell(withIdentifier:for:)` instantiates a new one; however, as cells scroll off the scene, they are reused. The identifier tells `dequeueReusableCell(withIdentifier:for:)` which type of cell it should create or reuse.
To make this code work for your app, you’ll need to change the identifier to the prototype cell identifier you set in the storyboard (`MealTableViewCell`), and then add code to configure the cell.

## set prototype cell identifier

Select the cell in the Interface Builder, in the Attributes inspector, find the field labeled Identifier and type in the identifier
