# Segue

Transitions between scenes are called segues.

# Navigation controller

A navigation controller manages transitions backward and forward through a series of view controllers. The set of view controllers managed by a particular navigation controller is called its navigation stack. The first item added to the stack becomes the root view controller and is never popped off (removed from) the navigation stack.

Navigation bars get their title from the view controller at the top of the navigation stack—they don’t have a title themselves. Each view controller has a navigationItem property. This property defines the navigation bar’s appearance for that view controller.

A show segue pushes the selected scene onto the top of the navigation stack, and the navigation controller presents that scene.

Push navigation is designed for a drill-down interface, where you’re providing more information about whatever the user selected. Adding an item, on the other hand, is a modal operation—the user performs an action that’s complete and self-contained, and then returns from that scene to the main navigation. The appropriate method of presentation for this type of scene is a modal segue.

An unwind segue moves backward through one or more segues to return the user to a scene managed by an existing view controller. While regular segues create a new instance of the destination view controller, unwind segues let you return to view controllers that already exist. Use unwind segues to implement navigation back to an existing view controller.

Whenever a segue gets triggered, it provides a place for you to add your own code that gets executed. This method is called prepare(for:sender:), and it gives you a chance to store data and do any necessary cleanup on the source view controller (the view controller that the segue is coming from).

```swift
// This method lets you configure a view controller before it's presented.

override func prepare(for segue: UIStoryboardSegue, sender: Any?) {

    super.prepare(for: segue, sender: sender)

    // Configure the destination view controller only when the save button is pressed.
    guard let button = sender as? UIBarButtonItem, button === saveButton else {
        os_log("The save button was not pressed, cancelling", log: OSLog.default, type: .debug)
        return
    }

    let name = nameTextField.text ?? ""
    let photo = photoImageView.image
    let rating = ratingControl.rating

    // Set the meal to be passed to MealTableViewController after the unwind segue.
    meal = Meal(name: name, photo: photo, rating: rating)
}
```

```swift
let name = nameTextField.text ?? ""
```
The nil coalescing operator(`??`) is used to return the value of an optional if the optional has a value, or return a default value otherwise. Here, the operator unwraps the optional `String` returned by `nameTextField.text` (which is optional because there may or may not be text in the text field), and returns that value if it’s a valid string. But if it’s `nil`, the operator the returns the empty string (`""`) instead.


The next step in creating the unwind segue is to add an action method to the destination view controller (the view controller that the segue is going to). This method must be marked with the IBAction attribute and take a segue (UIStoryboardSegue) as a parameter. Because you want to unwind back to the meal list scene, you need to add an action method with this format to MealTableViewController.swift.

```swift
@IBAction func unwindToMealList(sender: UIStoryboardSegue) {
    if let sourceViewController = sender.source as? MealViewController, let meal = sourceViewController.meal {

        // Add a new meal.
        let newIndexPath = IndexPath(row: meals.count, section: 0)

        meals.append(meal)
        tableView.insertRows(at: [newIndexPath], with: .automatic)
    }
}
```

```swift
if let sourceViewController = sender.source as? MealViewController, let meal = sourceViewController.meal {
```

This code uses the optional type cast operator (`as?`) to try to downcast the segue’s source view controller to a `MealViewController` instance. You need to downcast because `sender.sourceViewController` is of type `UIViewController`, but you need to work with a `MealViewController`.
The operator returns an optional value, which will be `nil` if the downcast wasn’t possible. If the downcast succeeds, the code assigns the `MealViewController` instance to the local constant `sourceViewController`, and checks to see if the meal property on `sourceViewController` is `nil`. If the `meal` property is non-`nil`, the code assigns the value of that property to the local constant `meal` and executes the `if` statement.
If either the downcast fails or the `meal` property on `sourceViewController` is `nil`, the condition evaluates to `false` and the `if` statement doesn’t get executed.

```swift
tableView.insertRows(at: [newIndexPath], with: .automatic)
```

This animates the addition of a new row to the table view for the cell that contains information about the new meal. The .automatic animation option uses the best animation based on the table’s current state, and the insertion point’s location.

```swift
@IBAction func cancel(_ sender: UIBarButtonItem) {
    dismiss(animated: true, completion: nil)
}
```

The `dismiss(animated:completion:)` method dismisses the modal scene and animates the transition back to the previous scene (in this case, the meal list). The app does not store any data when the meal detail scene is dismissed, and neither the `prepare(for:sender:)` method nor the unwind action method are called.
